Initial attempt at cleaning up the spec (#29)
base16-project/base16: builder.md

# Builder Guidelines
**Version 0.10.1**

*The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).*

> A base16 builder is an application that can build syntax highlighting definition files for text editors by using base16 scheme files (which contain a collection of colors) and base16 template files (which contain syntax highlighting rules).

Reviewer: Isn't this a bit narrow?  We support Terminal and other non-editors, do we not?

Author: Yes, good point - do we have a term for this yet? "application settings (and other support files)" covers quite a bit more, but is also a bit vaguer than I'd like.

Reviewer: I kind of liked "application theming" - the key word being theming, not themes -  but not if that just leads back to using "theme" everywhere...

IE:

>A base16 builder is an application that builds application specific themeing configurations.  It does this by using base16 scheme files (containing a collection of colors) and base16 template files (instructions concerning how to build the application specific files).

Author: That sounds good to me!

> Builders are generally designed for theme maintainers' ease of use. Theme maintainers SHOULD provide built versions of their theme so the end user doesn't need to be aware of the builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Builders are generally designed for template maintainers' ease of use. Template maintainers SHOULD provide built versions of their template so the end user doesn't need to be aware of the builder.
```

## Definitions

> A _base16 scheme_ is a yaml file that represents a palette of 16 colors. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _base16 scheme_ is a YAML file that represents a palette of 16 colors. For
```

example: the [solarized
scheme](https://github.com/base16-project/base16-schemes/blob/main/solarized-dark.yaml)

> A _base16 template_ is a mustache file that acts as a blueprint; it represents
> how to output the scheme into other file formats. For example: a [vim
> template](https://github.com/base16-project/base16-vim/blob/main/templates/default.mustache),
> to convert a _base16 scheme_ into a vim colorscheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _base16 template_ is a mustache file that acts as a blueprint; it represents
how to translate the scheme into an application's desired format. For example: the [vim
template](https://github.com/base16-project/base16-vim/blob/main/templates/default.mustache)
is used to convert a _base16 scheme_ into a vim colorscheme.
```

A _base16 builder_ is an application that implements the full _building_
feature specification, but MAY include additional functionality. These are
usually targeted at template maintainers or when building other base16 tooling.

_Building_ a _template_ is the process of replacing its variables (section 4.1)
with ones extracted from a _scheme_; usually outputting it to a file, as
defined by the _template_.

## Inputs

### Schemes Repository

Convenient access to schemes in the [schemes repository](https://github.com/base16-project/base16-schemes) SHOULD be provided. The builder SHOULD store the repo in a common location (perhaps referred to by environment variable or command line flag), dynamically embed the schemes in the builder, or provide an alternate method of accessing the schemes.

This repo contains _scheme files_ for all Base16 schemes.

- `/*.yaml`

<details>
  <summary>Scheme Files Spec</summary>

> Scheme files have the following example structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheme files have the following structure:
```

    scheme: "Scheme Name"
    author: "Scheme Author"
    description: "a short description of the scheme"
    base00: "000000"
    base01: "111111"
    base02: "222222"
    base03: "333333"
    base04: "444444"
    base05: "555555"
    base06: "666666"
    base07: "777777"
    base08: "888888"
    base09: "999999"
    base0A: "aaaaaa"
    base0B: "bbbbbb"
    base0C: "cccccc"
    base0D: "dddddd"
    base0E: "eeeeee"
    base0F: "ffffff"

> Hexadecimal color values may optionally be preceded by a "#".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Hexadecimal color values may optionally be preceded by a "#".
- Hexadecimal color values are case insensitive.
```

</details>

### Template Repository

Each template repository should have a templates folder containing a config.yaml and any needed mustache template files.

- `/templates/*.mustache` - A template file (there may be more than one of these)
- `/templates/config.yaml` - A template configuration file

<details>
  <summary>Template Config Spec</summary>

> These files have the following example structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These files have the following structure:
```

# Builder Guidelines
**Version 0.10.1**

*The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).*

> A base16 builder is an application that builds application specific themeing configurations. It does this by using base16 scheme files (containing a collection of colors) and base16 template files (instructions concerning how to build the application specific files).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A base16 builder is a tool that builds application specific themeing configurations. It does this by using base16 scheme files (containing a collection of colors) and base16 template files (instructions concerning how to build the application specific files).
```

I don't like application repeated twice in different meanings. :)

Builders are generally designed for template maintainers' ease of use. Template maintainers SHOULD provide built versions of their template so the end user doesn't need to be aware of the builder.

## Definitions

A _base16 scheme_ is a YAML file that represents a palette of 16 colors. For
example: the [solarized
scheme](https://github.com/base16-project/base16-schemes/blob/main/solarized-dark.yaml)

A _base16 template_ is a mustache file that acts as a blueprint; it represents
how to translate the scheme into an application's desired format. For example: the [vim
template](https://github.com/base16-project/base16-vim/blob/main/templates/default.mustache)
is used to convert a _base16 scheme_ into a vim colorscheme.

A _base16 builder_ is an application that implements the full _building_
feature specification, but MAY include additional functionality. These are
usually targeted at template maintainers or when building other base16 tooling.

_Building_ a _template_ is the process of replacing its variables (section 4.1)
with ones extracted from a _scheme_; usually outputting it to a file, as
defined by the _template_.

## Inputs

### Schemes Repository

> Convenient access to schemes in the [schemes repository](https://github.com/base16-project/base16-schemes) SHOULD be provided. The builder SHOULD store the repo in a common location (perhaps referred to by environment variable or command line flag), dynamically embed the schemes in the builder, or provide an alternate method of accessing the schemes.

Reviewer: "should store"

I think this makes a builder sound like a manager - but we could talk about this stuff next time around... The "builder must keep track of schemes" bit still bugs me a bit... 

I think overall the changes here are looking great though.  I think perfecting this without a truly collaborative editor is going to take a few passes.

> "the schemes repo"

Are we purposely forbidding secondary themes repositories?

Reviewer: I'm not sure the spec needs to talk about schemes in aggregate at all.  If we do perhaps we should refer to a "schemes directory"... the fact that someone got that via zip or tar.gz or git shouldn't matter.

Author: Alright, I've cleaned it up to make it clear that loading schemes is the only requirement - additionally loading from a directory or the GH repo directly have been changed to "MAY".
